Title: Program Behavior Sequence Prediction

Authors: Bo Wu, Yunlian Jiang, Xipeng Shen
Speaker: Bo Wu

Abstract:

Effective prediction of program dynamic behaviors is essential for
program optimizations and beyond. Most prior explorations have
concentrated on prediction accuracy, but largely ignored the other two
important aspects, prediction scope and proactivity.  This paper
describes our exploration towards the development of sequence
predictors, which, at one time point, predicts a sequence of program
behavior instances rather than a single instance as traditional
predictors do. Moreover, in many cases, a sequence predictor is able
to predict even before the current execution sees the first instance
of the target behavior, offering high proactivity. To overcome the
special challenges for sequence prediction that arise from context
variations, weakened behavior locality, and pattern variety, we
propose a solution that exploits intra-behavior pattern recognition
and inter-behavior correlation analysis synergistically. Experiments
on loop trip-count prediction demonstrate that the proposed approach
makes it feasible to construct sequence predictors that forecast
program behaviors in a large-scoped, proactive manner, hence opening
up many new opportunities for program optimizations and
parallelization, system resource management, and architectural
reconfigurations.
