Title: Improving Bloom Filter Configuration for Lazy Transactional Memory

Authors: Mark Jeffrey and J. Gregory Steffan (University of Toronto)
Speaker: Mark Jeffrey

Abstract:

Transactional Memory (TM) systems must detect memory access conflicts across
the read- and write-sets of concurrent transactions with minimal overhead.  For
many TM systems, read- and write-sets are maintained and compared using Bloom
filters that are efficient but can report false conflicts that do not exist.
Recent theoretical work has demonstrated that systems with lazy conflict
detection often use Bloom filters unconventionally by performing null
intersection tests via unpartitioned Bloom filters---resulting in provably
greater probability of false conflicts than alternative configurations, namely
partitioned intersection and queues-of-queries.

In this paper we use IBM's RingSTM and STAMP benchmarks to evaluate theory in
practice by implementing and comparing these alternative Bloom filter
configurations, to determine if their improved false conflict probabilities are
worth their higher computation overheads.  We also present a new compromise
approach called Batch-of-Bloom-filters (BoB) that strives for both the low
false conflicts of a queue-of-queries approach and the lower computation
overhead of intersection.  We find that the queue-of-queries approach typically
reduces execution time, and is thus the most compelling alternative to Bloom
filter intersection for lazy TM systems. The new BoB approach demonstrates
impressive reductions in false conflicts but suffers from the high overheads of
a software implementation even when optimized to exploit SIMD
instructions---but is a compelling candidate for hardware implementation due to
its natural parallelism.
